be responsible for the qualification 
of welders, welding operators and tack welders, whether the qualification is conducted by the manufacturer, Contractor, 
or an independent testing agency.
6.2.3  Period of Effectiveness
6.2.3.1  Welders and Welding Operators. The welder’s or welding operator’s qualification as specified in this 
code shall be considered as remaining in effect indefinitely unless:
(1)	 the welder is not engaged in a given process of welding for which the welder or welding operator is qualified for 
a period exceeding six months, or
(2)	 there is some specific reason to question a welder’s or welding operator’s ability (see 6.25.1).
6.2.3.2  Tack Welders. A tack welder who passes the test described in Part C or those tests required for welder 
qualification shall be considered eligible to perform tack welding indefinitely in the positions and with the process for 
which the tack welder is qualified unless there is some specific reason to question the tack welder’s ability (see 6.25.2).
6.3  Common Requirements for WPS and Welding Personnel Performance 
Qualification
6.3.1  Qualification to Earlier Editions. Qualifications performed to and having met the requirements of earlier 
editions of AWS D1.1 or AWS D1.0 or AWS D2.0 while those editions were in effect are valid and may be used. The use 
of earlier editions shall be prohibited for new qualifications in lieu of the current editions, unless the specific early edition 
is specified in the contract documents.
6.3.2  Aging. When allowed by the filler metal specification applicable to weld metal being tested, fully welded 
qualification test specimens may be aged at 200 °F to 220 °F [95 °C to 105 °C] for 48 ± 2 hours.
6.3.3  Records. Records of the test results shall be kept by the manufacturer or Contractor and shall be made available 
to those authorized to examine them.
6.3.4  Positions of Welds. All welds shall be classified as flat (F), horizontal (H), vertical (V), or overhead (OH), in 
conformance with the definitions shown in Figure 6.1, Figure 6.2, and 10.11.1.
Test assembly positions are shown in:
(1)	 Figure 6.3 (groove welds in plate)
(2)	 Figure 6.4 (fillet welds on plate)
Part B
Welding Procedure Specification (WPS) Qualification
6.4  Production Welding Positions Qualified
The production welding positions qualified by a plate test shall conform to the requirements of Clause 6 and Table 6.1. 
The production welding positions qualified by a tubular test shall conform to the requirements of Clause 10 and 
Table 10.8.
6.5  Type of Qualification Tests
The type and number of qualification tests required to qualify a WPS for a given thickness, diameter, or both, shall con­
form to Table 6.2 (CJP), Table 6.3 (PJP) or Table 6.4 (fillet). Details on the individual NDT and mechanical test require­
ments are found in the following subclauses:
AWS D1.1/D1.1M:2025	
PARTS A & B
CLAUSE 6. QUALIFICATION
Copy
 
 
 
 
Provid
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
